=== Podcast RSS Feed ===

--- Episode: Adam Levitan of Establish The Run (Thu, 22 Jan 2026 19:48:07 +0000) ---
URL: https://feeds.soundcloud.com/stream/2252363717-bettheprocess-adam-levitan-of-establish-the-run.mp3
 On this week's bet the process podcast, we have Adam Levitan from the established the run service, and we also talk a little bit of recap on the college football championship. And I quote a lot of lines incorrectly. And so with that, let's start the process.
 Bet the process. Bet the process. Welcome to the podcast. Bet the process. It's not that typical cookie cutter nonsense. If you came just for a picture in the wrong place, find a town with the narrative to make a strong case. Instead of blindly assuming a team must be tanking, we're looking for the edge and massy P body rankings, crunching all the numbers in the simulator system that break down the data analytically driven media coverage of sports gambling is pathetic.
 Welcome to another episode about the process podcast where Rufus is in Las Vegas. And I am in I am in the most wonderful place in the world, Orlando, or the most you know, you know, I was last weekend. Where suburban Cleveland. So I mean, why are you in suburban not far behind Orlando? Why are you in suburban Cleveland? Why was I? Yeah, I was there for the national squash league draft.
 What are you? Are you in the league? Are you do you have a team or what?
 No, no. Eli's. Well, Eli's a owner of one of the teams.
 Really? Yeah, it's pretty cool. We're gonna have to talk we can both talk about like, we can both talk about sports team ownership.
 By the way, did you did you see that cheetah was on risk of ruin?
 No, I haven't most recent episode of risk of ruin is cheetah and he he he did it because he heard cheetah on our on our episode. And he's fascinated by the concept of a Mormon gambler.
 I mean, I'm definitely risk of ruin is is my favorite.
 It's good. It covers the Crowley town stuff and it covers cheetah and his journey. It's good. It's really well done.
 Yeah, I mean, I enjoyed it. And that that that obviously if any of you guys don't listen to risk of ruin, you should because it's awesome.
 It's a fantastic podcast. Yeah, absolutely. And they're just I'd call it right. What's up? Would you call it a narrative podcast? Is that the I'd call it a good podcast as opposed to this one.
 But it's like it's it's it's more produced than it's, you know, I mean, that's hard to believe so much more produced. Right. I mean, that's my point. It's a
 different literally, I think I was 17 when we got Adam on, I mean, 17, like pre pre preview that I make like 17 wrong assumptions about lines because I'm looking at the wrong stuff and my memory shot.
 Anyways, um, college football championship thoughts.
 Oh, my God, dude. Okay, my portfolio was looking so freaking good at halftime there.
 You had under I had a bunch of I had a bunch of all unders to
 Yeah, and and I ended up getting like, smoked in that second half, like literally, I was looking at my college portfolio, and it went down 200 that it went down $200,000 in the second half from where was it halftime, but, but Indiana one, which is nice. And so we still
 you have any Miami position in the game, because I ended up betting Miami like, remember, we were like, what will I end up doing? Well, I end up betting more and I actually put on a Miami plus eight and a half position. So I ended up middle
 My positions, my positions were kind of all over the place there. In terms of what my number was, it really came down to what you made home field advantage, because Miami was playing at home, like, like a typical a neutral field game there, I would have made Indiana minus eight and a half, but
 A typical Miami home game there would have been like 5.65. Well, and I would that was with giving Miami full 100% attendance there. And so the icon of was like, let's see, let's kind of estimate how much the crowd is going to be Miami versus Indiana and get that as sort of a rough approximation and then manipulate the attendance numbers to get a good home field and then basically
 Do you think there is much of a home field?
 To be honest, I wasn't paying that much attention to the the noise levels.
 I don't know. What do you think?
 I kind of like was watching it out. So I didn't hear the commentary or whatnot. So but it my perception was that, like, there probably wasn't that much of a home field, but I have no idea.
 I mean, there was a red section.
 Yeah, like Indiana seems like they travel really well.
 Yeah, surprisingly. You know, I would have I would have guessed before the game. It might have been like 7525 Miami, but I think it was probably a little closer to 5050 that
 But but so basically I sell that it settled at a number that was like Indiana minus 6.8 6.9 and and then yeah like I was I was on some Miami. I had a lot of Miami like alt stuff like Miami to wit like
 Regardless. Well, around Miami like winning the game or even winning in a blowout. So Miami like blown out.
 Indiana, it wouldn't have been. It would not have been bad for me. But
 When you would have lost your Indiana.
 I was also able to like kind of I was trying to find ways to sort of hedge in pause in more interesting positive UV ways on the Indiana future. And one of them was
 Some of these like pre populated parlays on on Kashi like I had. I had a parlay of
 Well, I guess. What was it, it was in like the no on
 Indiana to win by over seven and a half and the game to go over 40 and a half. For example, I had a no on Indiana winning in the game going over because I really liked the under in the game. So I think a lot. A lot for me. A lot of it was centered around
 I still, by the way, even though it lost. I still really like the under
 Yeah. Well, luckily, those pre populated parlays were like
 Used 48 and a half.
 And the price was accordingly. The price was different. Right. Like, so I'm, you know, but, but that was nice that it got me some that it wasn't a complete, complete loss there. And I still thought
 By the way, do you, do you think that his decision to kick a field goal there was the right decision.
 At the end of the game.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I do.
 Why?
 Although I thought that the decision to not be more aggressive on
 On like second, well, on third down, maybe I wanted to see, I was like, are we going to see a quarterback run on third down.
 Like, obviously I didn't want him to kick a field goal there.
 For, for, for my purposes with, with the totals, but like, you know, I do think it, I mean, you, you have a good defense and you make Miami go the length of the field.
 Miami has a good kicker with range, like, I don't know. And I think you count on your defense there. I, this isn't, you know, it's not the NFL.
 I'd like to get someone on because I think it was a really bad decision.
 What did you think of the decision to go for it on fourth and five when they were up three in the fourth quarter.
 I thought that was the one that was.
 I think that was a hundred percent the right decision. The difference, we talked about the difference between a three point lead and a six point lead.
 We've talked about that in the NFL.
 Why is this any different?
 Well, kickers, well, in general, kickers aren't as good in college. So it's not the.
 Yeah, but you just said they have a good, like, I mean, I think this is no, at this high level, I don't, I don't think it's any different.
 I, I, I think this was a bad decision.
 You, because, and again, like Cignetti is an awesome coach and makes the right decision almost all the time.
 It's like fourth and five, right?
 Fourth and four.
 It was, it was not a, it was not a small amount.
 It wasn't a, it wasn't in short.
 Yeah. I, I agree that it wasn't in short, but again, and I, and I think your point that you're saying is even more what I'm saying too, which is like, you just should have been more aggressive, like on the previous place.
 Like they had, they got that second down.
 This first down run was for a lot.
 And then they got that false start and then they, like, it killed them or, I mean, yes, it killed them.
 But I was happy with the false start at the time because I was like, if they can get a first down on third down, the game's over.
 Yeah.
 That's the same thing that I felt too.
 And I was worried because obviously I was holding eight and a half.
 I was worried about them scoring a touchdown.
 Yeah.
 Touchdown would have been death because I would have lost both the under and, and the hedge that I had done.
 So, yeah.
 I mean, I, did you think that they were going to lose at when Miami started driving?
 No, I didn't.
 Crazy.
 I thought they were going to lose.
 I don't know.
 I was sort of like, I mean, it's like, maybe Miami had a few big plays on offense in the second half.
 But I kind of thought that I felt pretty confident with Indiana's defense there.
 I don't know.
 And Carson Beckett quarterback.
 Well, Carson Beckett quarterback is the thing for me.
 Yeah.
 I will be a Carson Beckett hater for that duration.
 I mean, that was a tough situation with no timeouts there.
 I will say these college teams, like, aren't, I don't know, I don't trust, I don't trust them as much in sort of these like two minute drills as NFL teams.
 I mean, if you look, yes, there's more points scored in college and all that.
 And there's more quicker drives overall.
 But if you look at like, how, like, for example, you could look at the score in the last two minutes of the first half props and stuff like that.
 In the NFL, it's kind of like guaranteed generally that you're going to get a score there in the college.
 It's, it's much more like, given the total, that was some Mario Cristobal magic at the end of that first half, huh?
 Sorry.
 What he did at the end of the first half, kind of settling for that field goal and trying to manage time that way.
 Uh, yeah, yes and no.
 I mean, like.
 Do you like, you, you like, like making sure there's no other possession there?
 Yeah, I think teams don't do that enough.
 I agree.
 You know what I mean?
 Cause it's literally like, yeah, if you score a touchdown, sure.
 But like, I mean, make it so give yourself a chance to score a touchdown if you can, but like also don't give the other team a possession where they can do something.
 I think it's more, again, I think it's bigger than the NFL.
 And I think that Cignetti got the ball back and was that it was there.
 I think he was a little upset about the play calling and, uh, it seemed oddly conservative there.
 Yeah.
 I mean, after, I mean, he, he was, he seemed content being up 10 points almost, but it's not like Indiana is a team that really is, has turnover, is turnover prone at all.
 They've like lost one fumble all year.
 It, it's something insane.
 Crazy.
 All right.
 Let's welcome in Adam Levitan from the ETR, Establish the Run.
 Is there a service?
 There's service.
 Yes.
 Service.
 Establish the Run.com.
 .com service.
 So, and we'll talk to you guys all again next week.
 We now welcome in Adam Levitan to the bet the process podcast.
 Adam, uh, welcome for our seven listeners.
 Maybe a couple are not familiar with your work.
 Uh, tell us a little bit about yourself and what you do.
 Yeah.
 Whenever people ask me that, I'm always say, uh, when normal people ask me that I'm like, Oh, I'm in predictive analytics.
 And then they never asked me another question.
 It's easy.
 Uh, the answer for, for this audience is more like, uh, I founded Establish the Run or co-founded Establish the Run and we're, you know, hyper focused on player level projections is, is the bottom line.
 When did you guys start? Because obviously like that world has become very big now.
 Um, how long have you guys been around?
 Yeah, we had no idea.
 We started this in, in 2019.
 We're just, you know, kind of fantasy guys trying to play DFS at a really high level and make the best possible player projections for that.
 Once sports betting and PESPA and all that, uh, came to legalization, uh, people were clamoring for our numbers to be released for things other than DFS and, uh, fantasy.
 Which, you know, kind of took us off guard.
 And that's one thing that, you know, I'm not really a businessman or anything, but one thing that I've learned from doing this is there's always something like around the corner.
 There's always like a pivot coming and being able to do that stuff, I think is, is important.
 When, uh, no, go ahead.
 I was going to say, what have the, what have been the challenges in growing?
 I mean, I know we've talked about in the past, like, you know, the problem, the difficult thing is once your projections kind of become mainstream.
 And, and a lot of people have them, does that, does that make it more difficult and have you, or has the expanding market due to like prediction markets really helped?
 Yeah, at this point, I have no idea what people do with our numbers.
 Like, you know, if you told me somebody's going on an exchange and, and making a ton of money on some prediction market or exchange, uh, posting our lines, I have no idea.
 Uh, people have all these crazy PPH outs and, and who knows what else?
 Clearly, there's a huge cohort of people that find us that are very happy to get down 20 or 50 or a hundred dollars on a prop on some legal.
 And then there's a smaller, but, uh, still significant cohort of guys or people that want to bet as much as they possibly can, um, and don't, aren't interested in anything that's up on legal.
 They only want to talk about what's on PPH or builder or whatever else is going on there in props.
 But yeah, I mean, it's, it's changed all that stuff a ton for sure.
 Legalization and lately the prediction markets too, I suspect.
 How much does your work influence the market?
 I mean, we have the classic thing that, you know, once you, once you're good at something, you influence the market so much that becomes not valuable to the, your, the people who pay for it anymore.
 Do you see that problem?
 Yeah, I mean, we release our NBA full stat numbers at five PM and I think, uh, five PM Eastern daily, and I think relatively quickly, uh, the market goes to where we are at.
 I think it's less so in NFL where there's so many more market participants and I think it's a bit more liquid, I suspect, but yeah, I mean, that's why we do everything on a week to week basis.
 Like if you can't get down, if you lose your outs, if you think we're not winning for whatever reason, like just quit, you know, it's, it's, we tell people all the time, just, just quit.
 Uh, you know, it's only week to week.
 So, so yeah, but we still, so like the main reason that we do all this stuff is still for fantasy and for DFS.
 That's still like the core reason that, that we're doing all this stuff and all this other stuff is just kind of come along secondarily.
 So, I mean, especially with fantasy and DFS, like the distribution stuff is so important, right? Like, cause you can have a mean projection that's the same for two guys and the tails could look, could look very different.
 Um, and, and I think that's another source, especially, uh, with legalization and all these alts being offered by, by legal books and prediction markets, like there's a lot of opportunities there.
 And so how, um, how do you attack that? Um, and maybe we can even start talking a little bit about, you know, this weekend and having a quarterback playing for your hometown team, the Broncos who hasn't played a snap in what, three years, something like that.
 Yeah. Um, this has gone way over my head. You know, I'm not a stats guy like, uh, Rufus at all. We have gotten to the point where to stay ahead of the market. We need a full team of Rufus like people. So we have a lot of people smarter than me.
 We need a lot of people, uh, because the market, I mean, undoubtedly the props market has gotten so much more competitive and the fantasy market has as well.
 So we have like a five person full time data side team. We also have contractors on projects. We also have like a 10 person team of quote unquote NFL ball knowers who are working on the inputs.
 What percent of the routes will cash on booty have this week versus, uh, pop Douglas? Um, what percent will Zach Charbonneau? I'm sorry. What percent will Kenneth Walker have versus play? Yeah. Zero percent for Zach Charbonneau. So, so yeah, if, you know, when we, when I got into this, if you told us, if you told me how much money we'd be spending to model and work on the SIM and work on all the inputs for the mean projections that go into the SIM for the day.
 Go into the SIM for the distributions. I'd be like, we shouldn't do this. It's just, it's just too expensive and it's too complicated. There's too many people, but that's kind of, I think where you're at now to stay ahead of the market, which sounds crazy because props used to be, you know, obviously so, so much easier to beat.
 It used to just be bet the under. Yeah. Great money.
 I mean, one of, one of the, one of the lessons that I think over the last couple of years that we've learned on or people that have learned on this, on the show is a little bit about this understanding of distribution. Because ultimately, like, if you think about what Judah does when he comes on and talks about alts and things like that, he's implying that these distributions are not, you know, are not normal and whatnot. So how much edge do you think comes from that? And do we think that sports books are, you know, because ultimately the theory would be that sports books are just assuming similar distributions.
 For every player. And that's why there's edges or similar distributions, like they're kind of modeling this in a simplistic way. Do we, do we think that's still true or are they starting to adjust?
 I think they have started to adjust. I still think that the, like some of the biggest edges that you find maybe are partly distribution, but also still like just recency bias stuff, you know, and we can talk about that with the Rams and the way the Rams played on Sunday, which actually caught me by surprise.
 They went to a ton of three wide receiver sets instead of what they did all season, which was multi tight end sets, two tight end, three tight end.
 And like, why did they do that out of the stone blue? That's like not something you can model and that's not something you can model whether they go back to it.
 This when they go back to heavy tight end this week, I think they will McVeigh came out and said afterwards, he thought he made a mistake with the game plan. They have all their tight ends healthy here. I think he was trying to get more Bears cornerbacks.
 Onto the field and therefore went more three wide receiver sets. 91% of snaps were three wide receiver sets, but like this is the kind of stuff where I think the biggest edges are. Do you think that we should have Mumfield for more routes in this game than Parkinson like it was last week or should we flip it back?
 And I think that's kind of where more ball knowing edges are and then get that into the SIM and get the distributions from there and find some more edges there and just trying to stack edges on both ball knowing and modeling.
 Yeah, I mean, I agree with that that it like I was honestly I had a really tough time modeling out trying to figure out what the Rams, what the snap percentages and tar and route percentages were going to be just given the fact you had all three tight ends healthy again. You had you had who was it that returned a wide receiver I mean you had at well play in the last few weeks before and I mean it was kind of like you had everybody healthy again and it was like Xavier Smith can they actually see the field at all.
 But Whittingham played a little bit of a role that I didn't see happening and what's that yeah Whittington whatever Tyrone no Jordan Tyrone Willingham was on the field.
 Yeah, exactly. Yeah, but wait, I mean, I feel like when I go through this stuff, I'm like, it's less like, oh, let's apply this decay function overall and it's more like let's try to figure out what's representative and where there's like a shift.
 It feels like so different from like the way I used to do it where just because you kind of have to and like we you have more data at your disposal like before, when I when I was doing this back in like 2008 2009 way back when, you know, I'm, I don't have snap count percentages.
 Like, I'm literally just like, okay, this is what this guy's season average was will decay at this much like for his, you know, what percentage of the team's targets he got and like, it's, I mean it's, it feels like there's whole there's levels of complexity
 that I still haven't gotten to yet that, you know, I mean, you can look at defenses and like man zone, you can look at route types and expectations off of those like it's, it's kind of a, it's an onion.
 There's always another layer to peel back.
 Can we talk a little bit about that game last week with the Rams. Was that game more conditions or Rams or Bears defense because obviously the Rams often struggled to score in a way that we really haven't seen them this year.
 I think the Rams offense has played well for a while is the thing and that I think that's kind of one of the reasons that McVeigh change it up from personnel perspective they I didn't think the Rams played particularly well on offense against the Panthers in the wild card round in week 18 they went all out against Arizona,
 I didn't think they played that well for much of that game week 17 that Monday night game against the Falcons. Their offense wasn't great either so it has been a while since the Rams offense played well so yeah I think conditions played a factor there clearly like
 you start stacking all these weather conditions, a little bit of wind, a lot of cold, a little bit of snow, and obviously it had an impact on the game so yeah I think they'll play much better here on offense, but I think one of the stories of this weekend is Rams offense,
 maybe not playing as well lately as they have on the balance of the season, and Broncos defense, not playing as well lately or really since the bye, as they have on on the balance of the season.
 And Stafford hasn't looked particularly good at all the last few weeks. Right.
 Especially for a guy that was a shoe in for MVP.
 Yeah. Is he? Is he a shoe in? I don't know.
 My take is he will, I'm not saying I think it's like really close who should win I think from an analytics profile Drake may clearly deserves to win. I think that Stafford, people are like oh Stafford has Devante Adams and Sean McVeigh and Pooka Naku.
 Well, to me, in my opinion those guys have Stafford. Stafford has elevated everyone around him for a long time, including obviously Calvin Johnson but I'm talking about guys like Golden Tate and Marvin Jones and like, you get guys off the street that
 Stafford comes in and has some really incredible seasons with so I think Stafford deserves a lot of credit for what the Rams did last year but if you wanted to vote for Drake may on the efficiency and analytics profile I'd be fine with that.
 Also, I do think Stafford will win just because like these voters, a lot of them just think, ah, Drake may has another 15 years to win MVP I'm going to give this one to Stafford and I think too much of that goes into the voting but that's like, I bet a lot of this award stuff so I think of it through the
 lens of these voters are not thinking like we are about Drake may's EPA per drop back and stuff like that.
 I mean he's trading at Stafford's trading at like 87, you can buy it 88 cents on the coliseum and it's been 27 million total traded on that market that's kind of insane isn't it.
 Yeah, really popular markets really if you're good at this stuff like those markets are more liquid than people realize the, the awards markets overall.
 I bet Philip Rivers not to be come back player of the year at one point.
 Good bet. Thanks.
 So going into this week's games.
 The Rams and, and the Seahawks.
 Going into the playoffs, if you had guessed this line, it probably wouldn't have been what it is right now. Do we agree with this line move, or, you know, what would we think about that.
 You think Seattle would have been favored by more.
 What's up, which game are you talking about Seattle, Seattle. Yeah, you would have. I don't know I feel like I thought it would have been somewhere around here probably I feel like Seattle and Rams are kind of like the co have been like the co
 best teams in football. Yeah, but they played in Seattle, during the regular season, and the Rams were favored by what three points or something like that.
 So, I don't think the Rams were favored by three in Seattle. Yeah, Rams are favored in that game I thought.
 I mean how long ago was that.
 That was week 16.
 Devante Adams didn't play in that game, either. I don't remember what the closing line was on maybe maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm misremembering.
 Let me let me look, I think it would have been Seahawks minus three. But, yeah, I think that the line I thought, you know, I don't really look at sides or totals or anything like that at all but the line I thought made sense to me from the
 perspective of the public is not going to want to pile in on the Rams after they struggled against the Panthers and the Bears, you know two teams that I don't think anybody's like overwhelmed by their qualities so yeah I thought the line was roughly
 I thought, maybe something that from an injury perspective that people aren't thinking about too much on this game.
 Seattle's first string, second string, and third string left tackle are all hurt Charles Cross has a foot injury he left the game early last week Josh Jones is the backup.
 He's injured and Amari Kite, the third stringer, he got hurt he's not practicing either and then their best pass protection back Zach Charbonneau. He's obviously out for this game too with that torn ACL so from that perspective like don't we know Darnold
 struggles with pressure. We know the 49ers are incapable of pressure Darnold looked good last week I thought on just 19 drop backs. It's there. If I'm the Rams I'm just going to blitz on like constantly here, especially off that left tackle spot and especially
 here so I think that's like a factor in the game I don't know if that's how much that matters in the line, but yeah I mean I think it's at least notable that they're very banged up in pass protection are the Seahawks here.
 There's a range of outcomes for Donald just way greater than for this game than it would be typically, because it's like, and this is, you know, just anecdotally it feels like he's a rhythm passer, where, if he, if he feels comfortable he's can just pick a part of defense but if he is and he can, we've seen it.
 And that is clear on pressure rate Darnold is one of the worst quarterbacks in the NFL when he is under a lot of pressure. I also think there's the whole narrative which I don't know if you've tried to quantify Rufus it's hard but like big game.
 Darnold has not been good in other words in the biggest spots Darnold has often melted down I know like for golf stuff you've looked at like hey on Sundays the guys choke off leads and stuff like that.
 I don't know how you would even quantify this really in the NFL but that's the narrative around Darnold that in big games, he melts down I think it's more when he is pressured, he melts down and that's why the left tackle stuff concerns me at least a little bit.
 And when we said going into the game right but is it just being pressured more well no but we said going into last game ever we've said this is a perfect situation for him because the, you know, the Niners can't get pressure and and you know they tried I mean it's all a set set they sent guys and you know Darnold did react relatively well but I think you when you have to send that many guys to get pressure it's not, it's not that hard, ultimately, and I don't think the Rams are gonna need to send as many guys like that.
 But one thing we know if you talk about the Rams a little bit the regression has been offense and a little bit on pass coverage but certainly their pass rush has still been there I think so they're, they're going to be able to get pressure is my guess.
 Just recheck that the line was one and a half Seahawks in that game. So, what are the sort of second order effects of the left tackle injuries for the Seahawks and Charbonneau out or there. Did you do the Seahawks do anything different to try to protect him, or they're, you know, bringing more guys like more Max Protect sets or.
 Yeah, I mean they have not I thought the trade for Rashid Shahid at the deadline would actually be like a difference maker for them I thought they needed someone like that to stretch the field and use him a ton.
 They have not anyways Cooper Cup continues to run more routes than Rashid Shahid at least on offense. Shahid has had an awesome impact on special teams but not really on offense so if they want to go to more to wide receiver sets here and get into more protection for Darnold.
 You know also last week we only got Darnold only dropped back 19 times and I mean, they were all over the 49ers in this game it's not like Darnold was tested at all so like the big game stuff he never really felt the pressure of a big game they were just coasting all time
 only dropped back 19 times so yeah.
 Any, any thoughts, either of you guys on the line in this game and or the total.
 I mean I make it a little higher I make Seahawks a bigger favorite I think the Seahawks are the better team again this isn't factoring in the the injuries and the matchup but I would have made it closer to like four or half.
 If you look at bat that at their two games this Seattle's move the ball well on them, they've just had turnovers that's been the issue with them in terms of. So, I think there's gonna be a lot of scoring in this game.
 Personally, the line of the only being 42 and a half seems low to me.
 Sorry, sorry I'm looking at that last game I don't know what this what what this current one is sorry.
 I don't have a 46 and a half is actually the line so that that is that is more more representative.
 I like the offer.
 Yeah, I don't have a take on the on the line or the total but I figured, give the seven listeners a little bit of value we have mean for Kenneth Walker receiving ours mean we have 23.7 median.
 You know, and there's some 24 and a half's out there so that would be my favorite bet on this game.
 Yeah, that's what you think Seattle.
 What do you will Seattle mix anyone else in.
 Yeah, so George Alani has not played since we 12 I thought that they thought Alani would be a decent prospect for him when Walker and Charbonne were both healthy they actually gave him a couple carries meaningful carries and games earlier this year.
 He's been out for so long, I don't know that they're going to activate him and play him here if they don't.
 I think they want to use Kenneth Walker for as much as possible though and if Kenneth Walker got up to 80% of the snaps in this game 85% that would not shock me at all but you know these days all that stuff's priced in I mean everybody knows, you know that
 there's a really big role here and you get some outsized numbers on him here I think in the market. Is there any looking right now at Walker's like his route percentage relative to his past snap percentage basically and it doesn't look like he's in past coverage a lot.
 Yeah, I mean, they are past protection a lot sorry. Exactly. And so like they anytime they were in past production it's been sharp they clearly prefer sharp and I mean so much bigger and so much better in past protection so yeah it's definitely a story here.
 How much will Kenneth Walker be on the field in true passing situations if he's gonna be asked to pass block or pick up blitz on some of them.
 I'm literally looking and like he's like Kenneth Walker is, I don't think he's had a game where he's had more than three snaps in past protection.
 Like that's yeah Charbonneau is the guy there. Yeah, and Charbonneau is the guy in short yardage which you know all the fantasy people know because it's very frustrating to watch Kenneth Walker shred and then Charbonneau come in and vulture but yeah Walker definitely a better bet to score a touchdown this week than he has, than he's been previously.
 Is there any concern about like Walker usage because I'm assuming like one of the reasons that they've always been, you know, tried to limit his usage is his injury and he isn't the biggest back. You have any concerns I mean he always handled the ball a lot last game and then comes back, you know, a week later and they're going to give him the ball a ton again.
 Yeah, I mean, we see this all the time in the NFL I think where people like us want the dynamic player to play more and coaches want the success rate guide and reliable got to play more.
 I think what Mike McDaniel did with a Chan is a perfect example like you wouldn't think Devon a Chan isn't every down back can play 80 90% of the snaps. Turns out that he can and I think see also be willing to find out here on Walker, especially in like a one game huge NFC championship.
 All right, move on to the other game. What do we do with them, you have are you a Broncos fan do you have any hope for this game.
 I don't know man, but I really guy.
 I.
 So, Jared's did him is Sean Payton's guy, the first move that Sean Payton made when he came to Denver was to sign Jared Stidham now he saw Jared Stidham for a year, and he decided to take bone next 12th overall so it's not like he was like oh my god we have our guy we
 still took bone next 12th overall. I think if you want to see what Jared Stidham is capable of I tweeted a video of his first career start which was against the 49ers end of the 2022 season Niners were playing their starters.
 Niners had a very good defense that year and Stidham just shredded them 365 yards, three touchdowns took no sacks. That's what he's capable of. Since then he's had three more NFL starts. I don't think he's you know look particularly great in any of those following three but
 he's at least been capable like I would call him a top seven ish backup in the league and I say that without a lot of confidence because he only has four NFL starts now. I don't think that Sean Payton is going to change the game plan a ton we have mild docs on pass rate,
 we have mild docs on how many plays, they will get off, but in terms of efficiency like bone next already was not the most efficient quarterback, it's hard to get lower on Stidham efficiency here so I thought the line move, you know,
 the efficiency in a way like all of the like completion percentage and yards per temp stuff. I like the core kind of okay so you don't think it'll be much worse there. I don't. I mean it but I never thought that mixed next would be great here in that spot either against the Patriots defense and yeah that's another story of this game that like, well I'll stick on Stidham for a second.
 Stidham, I also think the Broncos and Sean Payton will have confidence Stidham was unreal in the preseason like maybe the best quarterback that we saw this preseason for what that's worth so I think a lot of confidence in him, I think he'll be competent.
 I don't think the line move too much but I don't have like numbers like Rufus might on what Knicks versus Stidham it should be worth to the line. I mean I don't either it's it's it's hard like I mean you can have what did you make what would you have made the line with Knicks Rufus.
 I didn't make it but but I think it I would have had the Broncos is like I mean I would have had the Broncos is like three to four points better than they are now. Maybe a little higher than that. Like I have the Broncos is is a below average team now.
 Have you done your numbers for what it would have been for what if Knicks was playing? I can. I just haven't. I just didn't. I did not know that this would be the question. You didn't know that we would talk about the NFC the AFC championship game?
 You didn't know we would talk about what's actually going to happen which is Stidham playing not Knicks playing. Yeah but the so the narrative that everyone's talking about is oh the line move too much right. In order for us to understand how much the line moved we need to understand what it would have been right.
 So the question is and I think that's the thing that everyone's kind of arguing about was this a you know like because it opened it like five and a half six right and it's down to four and a half now and was was this you know how much of a line move was this.
 If it was would the Broncos have been favored by you know one and a half two three points and I'm in this NFL chat with some sharp betters and they actually said they thought the line would have been even with Knicks or they would have made the line even with Knicks.
 So then it's only what a four or five point move which is essentially what you're saying you think it is right Rufus? The difference? Yeah. Yeah. My take is that the line is not only due to the quarterback stuff but Denver's defense has sprung a ton of leaks over the last really really since the buy and to me that's the second biggest story of the game behind Knicks and I think why the line has kind of moved maybe more
 than people think that it should. They got shredded by Jordan Love, by Josh Allen last week, by Trevor Lawrence. They continue to make big plays. They still have an awesome pass rush but like they're giving up 5.8 yards per play, 5.7, 5.5 you know it's like their defense has not been lights out and I don't know man at this point if I was just playing this game real life I might want Patriots defense more than Broncos defense.
 I mean since Patriots got Milt Williams and Robert Spillane back they've been awesome and so yeah to me that's like a big concern for the Broncos here is your defense going to get outplayed by Patriots defense on top of all the all the Stidham stuff.
 Do you have a pointy boo on the game Rufus? By the way Jeff I kind of agree I would have made it Broncos minus one it looks like before and I have a movement of four and a half points for Knicks over Stidham.
 Thank you Rufus for sharing your analysis. So I make the number New England minus 3.7. Right. Which way do you think this line will go? It's four and a half right now you know obviously it came down from six, five and a half to four and a half. You guys see it moving?
 Yeah it's going to go down. I mean I don't think New England has been I mean they've
 yes they've I mean now I'm trying to think about trying to remember the game last weekend but I don't think they've been a world beater and I don't think honestly I don't think Drake maybe I just had really high expectations of what Drake may would be but I don't think he's played
 his two best games and so far in the playoffs and I could be very wrong. Well he definitely hasn't right. Adam you probably have the stats which is like turnovers and oh my god he's fumbled six times in two games he now has 14 fumbles on the season which is
 league high and you're facing a pass rush which generates tons of sacks so like he's aware of this though they're very aware that they need to protect the ball in this game like Drake may should be much more careful with the ball here he knows coming into this game.
 That's the whole key like can I protect the football against the Broncos pass rush because if they can I think that they'll move the ball fine against this Denver defense I really do.
 I mean this is obviously the key to any football game but I think even more so isn't it's kind of the key is like Patriots avoid turnovers and Sam Darnold avoids turnovers and that's the key to both games.
 Yeah, I think sometimes gonna have to make more plays that they and Drake may clearly but but yeah.
 Yeah.
 What are any, any interesting prop bets or props to look at in the Denver game.
 Yeah, I'm looking right here. We have some questionable stuff in the wide receiver with we don't know if Mac Collins is going to play or not didn't practice yesterday, and certainly the way that cash on booties been playing.
 I don't think they should take cash on booty off the field at all and if you want to tell me, they should take Kyle Williams off the field, I'd be more okay with that.
 But one spot I think like the best way to attack Denver is with tight ends and running backs and teams challenge Riley Moss a lot because he plays opposite Patrick certain.
 Riley Moss is catch rate allowed has been really really good yeah he's committed a lot of penalties, but catch rate allowed has been really really good so the best way I think, and we saw this last week you know Kincaid went off tight end and running back so like one thing
 going decent Evian is Austin Hooper to score a touchdown at plus 850.
 We are showing $34 and 86 cents of Evie on that, and I know people love the anytime touchdown bets so why not.
 I love rooting for a backup tight under second tight end to score.
 Well, we'll commit scoring that late touchdown for me on that incredible fourth down throw was nice for me I had I had some cold commit overs into score touchdowns.
 Nice.
 Got very lucky.
 Okay, anything else on the Broncos game I think one of the things I think is interesting is the way that that Broncos offenses design, they do so many of those like short passes and like the, you know, those like quick screens and things like that.
 And I'm guessing that Stidham is going to be fine and executing those it's going to be the, the, the, you know, drop backs that everyone's going to like hold their breath on third and longs.
 Yeah, and mobility I mean Bo Nicks is sneaky mobile good runner they actually call a ton of designed runs for Bo Nicks I don't think they're gonna do that with Stidham and I think that can move a little bit though a little bit.
 Yeah, not like he's not Stafford agree it was interesting hearing me face comments or not make a Sean Payton comments saying that he's, you know, he thinks did him is one of the top 32.
 I was like that's not a huge vote of confidence. That's like saying, he could be the worst starter in the league.
 I mean it's saying starting caliber quarterback is what he's trying to say yeah I know, are you really going to make fun of someone for something wrong thing.
 Yeah, yeah that's that's not like my starter, my backup could be a starter and a lot of places it seems like my backup could be a starter and at least for at least one team in the NFL.
 Yeah.
 Last thing I'd say on New England.
 If you watch the game last week you saw Remondre Stevenson leave for a pretty decent chunk of time with an eye issue, and then come back and so like, you know, hopefully people like Rufus who are just like super data driven, don't see that stuff, and they have to split the way it was last week.
 Anyone who was watching, once Remondre was cleared, they went back to heavy heavy heavy Remondre and so I don't think last, my point is I don't think last week split is indicative of what it will be this week between Remondre and Trevion.
 By the way, I mean that's a really good point Adam and I do think, I mean, it's important when you watch the games to see like, oh this guy went out with an injury for a few plays he was in the medical tent and then he came back right it wasn't like this, you know, like the reason,
 like, understanding the reason behind the splits and, and I feel like I need to go back and watch, like, other games, I mean and see, but but I mean you can you can find a lot from like, Googling that stuff too, but like this guy left in this quarter because, you know, when you're looking through
 you know I'm looking through logs of, like, guys like I have a little chart in front of me so I can kind of like visualize it with different like kind of color coded and like, I'm like, this guy's snap percentage went like was way down, you know he might be 606040,
 back to 60 and it's like why was he 40 oh he was, you know, hurting out for, you know, knocked out in the third quarter of this game, or the team had a 28 point lead in the third quarter and I'm like okay they were probably pulling some of their starters so it's
 kind of like, I mean, I think the tough thing is to try to think like I mean because you could have a game that ends up being a blowout you never anticipate one of these games like with lines close to pick being a blowout but like, you know,
 and again it's like the whole distribution in the tails right like you could have a game where like the third tight end gets looks because the team is up a ton, or anyway sorry I'm just rambling on.
 Adam, we thought it was a great point. We'd be remiss if we didn't talk a little bit about, you know, the, the recent scandals around prop bets as someone that you know makes his living, helping people do prop bets.
 What's your point of view on the whole idea that, you know, like I've heard people say like oh you can only only bet overs or oh you know like you shouldn't get the opportunity to bet against these guys or there shouldn't be the same game partly as you do you have a
 point of view on it.
 Well first of all I wouldn't bet anywhere where you can't bet the under, you know, like that that's just like a ridiculous setup, you know, and so yeah, period for now, I'll say on the like a lot of people in our space.
 When something happens like Terry Roger or John de Porter they say, Look how great legalized sports betting is.
 We never would have uncovered this, if it wasn't for legalized sports betting and yeah, that's true. I think people are kind of missing a bigger point, which is 10 years ago.
 I couldn't even bet on the ninth man on the Raptors or the eighth man on the Blazers. I couldn't bet their steals line or, you know, rebounds plus assist that stuff was even posted on PPH or offshore, or even if I went to Vegas like that stuff was even posted.
 And now we also not only do we have lines for all those guys now, you can also SGP them and parlay them together now so I'm not capped at winning like some small amount by betting on the fourth wider seer for the Steelers or the third running back for the chief.
 So when people talk about like regulation of the prop market.
 I don't think we should invite any stretch, eliminate props from menus I don't think we will it just, it's so popular it's so much money for the states.
 But if you wanted to tell me that we don't need lines on the ninth man for the Raptors or the eighth man for the Blazers or we shouldn't be able to SGP them like that would, you know, suck for us but, you know, I might agree with you.
 You know, and like I would have said that a while ago I was like, man, the games aren't rigged these guys but and I would think anytime people would say they're rigged the rigged I would say you're an idiot.
 And now, you know, I understand where they're coming from because these guys, you bet a $20,000 SGP you can make a million with with the right network to get down and stuff like that so I just think it's, it's changed more than people give it credit for with the legalization stuff.
 Did anybody, did you guys see the, the indictment.
 I was, how many people at 27 people charge something like that, and point shaving a college basketball seasons in China, and.
 Yeah.
 Did you bet any that you bet any of those games that turned out to be like goddamn extra games.
 I honestly get to like, look, I'm, I kind of want to read through that indictment and because there are specific games mentioned I want to see if I was on the other side there, because that kind of thing hurts me is a better clearly.
 But yeah, well, but last, do you remember last year Rufus I last year was not very good and extra games for you guys if I remember correctly.
 Something to do with that.
 Exactly, it may have I mean, it was the those teams listed were almost all extra game teams.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Adam thanks for joining us.
 You know, good luck in your bets and good luck with the ETR you want to tell everyone where they can see your work. No yeah you can just go to my Twitter, Adam Levitan all one word and that will send you down a path of.
 Well, I don't know what else is down a path of.
 Yeah, we appreciate appreciate you guys have me always good time.
 Media coverage sports gambling is pathetic. The bottom line is watered down it seems like they don't get it.
 Teaser but the engines running off of it. None of it's organic. It all sounds synthetic. That's why fucks with Jeff Ma and his dog Rufus the locks of the year they just tell you what the truth is maybe make your pockets fatter as the bookies get thinner give the information turn a losing betters into winners.
 Repping rockers, Jeff Ma, Rufus Peabody, crunching all the numbers, messy Peabody rankings, we're looking for the edge, analytically driven, crunching all the numbers.

